# Variables
-  As mentioned in [[Chapter2]], variables are **immutable** by default. This means that the following code will not compile.
```rust
fn main() {
    let x = 5;
    println!("The value of x is: {x}");
    x = 6;
    println!("The value of x is: {x}");
}
```
- make them mutable by adding `mut` like we did in [[Chapter2]]
```rust
fn main() {
    let mut x = 5;
    println!("The value of x is: {x}");
    x = 6;
    println!("The value of x is: {x}");
}
```
## Constants
- Wait, why do we need constants if we have `let` being constant by default?
- These have some differences
	- Constants are **ALWAYS** immutable
	- Constants **MUST** be annotated
	- Constants can be declared in any scope (including global)
	- Constants may be set **ONLY** to a **CONSTANT** expression. Nothing at runtime.
```rust
const THREE_HOURS_IN_SECONDS: u32 = 60 * 60 * 3;
```
## Shadowing
- Declaring a variable with the same name is known as *shadowing*, which means the second time / declaration is what the compiler will see when you use the value until you shadow it again or it goes out of scope
- You can shadow by reusing the name and also reusing the `let` keyword. Note that if you don't have the `let` keyword, it won't compile as in the first example in [Variables](#Variables)
- Some more tricky stuff on shadowing
```rust
fn main() {
    let x = 5;

    let x = x + 1;

    {
        let x = x * 2;
        println!("The value of x in the inner scope is: {x}"); 
		// prints 12
    }

    println!("The value of x is: {x}");
    // prints 6
}
```
- Note that the type was shadowed on the inner scope, but was kept on the outer scope
- Some more differences between *shadowing* and `mut`
	- using `let` and *shadowing*, we can perform transformations (i.e. type conversions) while keeping the variable immutable
	- Rust is still strongly typed, so if we have `mut` and we want to change types, that will still throw a compile error. Through shadowing however, we can change types and keep the variable immutable as long as we keep the `let` keyword
	- i.e.
with *shadowing* (will compile)
```rust
let spaces = "   "; // string type
let spaces = spaces.len(); // i32 type
```
with `mut` (won't compile because we are not allowed to switch the type)
```rust
let mut spaces = "   ";
spaces = spaces.len();
```

> [!NOTE] Note
> With shadowing, it gets rid of the need to have variables like `spaces_str` and `spaces_num` for type conversions. If you find yourself doing that in your rust code, then take a step back and realize you are doing something wrong or non-optimally
