# BasicTypes
- Rust is *statically typed*, meaning all types must be known at compile time. However, the compiler is pretty good at inferring types.
- Recall in [[Chapter2]] when we converted using `parse`
```rust
let guess: u32 = "42".parse().expect("Not a number!");
```
- The type annotation is required, because without it, we don't know what type to parse to.
- Within the types, there are certain categories
	- [ScalarTypes](#ScalarTypes)
	- [CompoundTypes](#CompoundTypes)
## ScalarTypes
- represents a single value
- Rust has 4 primary scalar types
	- integers
	- floating-point numbers
	- booleans
	- characters
### Integer Types
| Length  | Signed  | Unsigned |
| ------- | ------- | -------- |
| 8-bit   | `i8`    | `u8`     |
| 16-bit  | `i16`   | `u16`    |
| 32-bit  | `i32`   | `u32`    |
| 64-bit  | `i64`   | `u64`    |
| 128-bit | `i128`  | `u128`   |
| arch    | `isize` | `usize`  |
- All of the typical overflow and sizes happen here. Check the book for more details

> [!NOTE] Note
> Rust has checks for integer overflow in debug mode, but not release mode. In release mode, integers will "wrap" because of the [two's complement](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Two's_complement). There are also builtin checks provided by the standard library if you would like to explicitly handle overflow
> - Wrap in all modes with the `wrapping_*` methods, such as `wrapping_add`.
> - Return the `None` value if there is overflow with the `checked_*` methods.
> - Return the value and a boolean indicating whether there was overflow with
>   the `overflowing_*` methods.
> - Saturate at the value’s minimum or maximum values with the `saturating_*`
>   methods.
### Floating Point
- Two sizes, 
	- `f32` - 32 bit, single-precision
	- `f64` - 64 bit, default, double-precision
- **ALL** floating points are signed
- Follows [IEEE-754](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IEEE_754)
```rust
let x = 2.0; // f64
let y: f32 = 3.0; // f32
```
### Numeric Operations
```rust
fn main() {
    // addition
    let sum = 5 + 10;

    // subtraction
    let difference = 95.5 - 4.3;

    // multiplication
    let product = 4 * 30;

    // division
    let quotient = 56.7 / 32.2;
    let truncated = -5 / 3; // Results in -1

    // remainder
    let remainder = 43 % 5;
}
```
### Boolean
- Pretty standard, 1 byte, either `true` or `false`
```rust
fn main() {
    let t = true;

    let f: bool = false; // with explicit type annotation
}
```
### Character
- Characters are 4 bytes and represent Unicode Scalar Values, so you can have things like emojis, chinese, japanese, korean characters
- Specified with single quotes (as opposed to string literals which use double quotes)
- More on this in [[Chapter8]]
```rust
fn main() {
    let c = 'z';
    let z: char = 'ℤ'; // with explicit type annotation
    let heart_eyed_cat = '😻';
}
```
## CompoundTypes
- Group multiple values into one type
- Rust has two primitive compount types
	- [Tuples](#Tuples)
	- [Arrays](#Arrays)
### Tuples
- **FIXED LENGTH**
- once declared, cannot change in size
- Comma separated list of values surrounded by parentheses.
- **each position has a type** and they don't have to be the same
```rust
fn main() {
    let tup: (i32, f64, u8) = (500, 6.4, 1); // optional type annotation

	// destructuring is supported
    let (x, y, z) = tup;

    println!("The value of y is: {y}"); // prints 6.4

	// you can also index by .<num> syntax, 0 indexed
	let five_hundred = tup.0;
	let six_point_four = tup.1;
	let one = tup.2;
}
```
#### Unit Tuple
- The tuple with no elements `()` is called the **unit**. 
- This value and its corresponding type are both written `()` and represent an empty value or an empty return type. Expressions implicitly return the unit value if they don’t return any other value.
### Arrays
- Every element must have the same type
- **Fixed Length**
- comma separated list inside square brackets
- allocated on the stack in contiguous memory
- There is also a `vector` provided by the standard library, which is discussed in [[Chapter8]]
```rust
let months = ["January", "February", "March", "April", "May", "June", "July",
              "August", "September", "October", "November", "December"];
let a: [i32; 5] = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
// this says to create an array of 5 elements where all of them are 3
let b = [3; 5]; 
// equivalent to `let b = [3, 3, 3, 3, 3];`

// access with [], 0 indexed
let first = a[0];
```
#### Invalid Access
- in other languages like C, accessing out of bounds does not do anything, except potentially corrupt your program or allow exploits
- Rust does runtime checking of bounds of arrays, and will panic and exit if an invalid access is done
- More error handling and other ways of explicitly handling this are discussed in [[Chapter9]]